# Contributing

<!-- For full documentation visit [mkdocs.org](https://www.mkdocs.org).

## Commands

* `mkdocs new [dir-name]` - Create a new project.
* `mkdocs serve` - Start the live-reloading docs server.
* `mkdocs build` - Build the documentation site.
* `mkdocs -h` - Print help message and exit.

## Project layout

    mkdocs.yml    # The configuration file.
    docs/
        index.md  # The documentation homepage.
        ...       # Other markdown pages, images and other files. -->


This page present the basic steps required to contribute to this repo. Its content is threefold:
1. [how to set up the environment to add content](#setting-up-the-environment)
2. [core principle of this documentation build](#adding-content)
3. [tips and tricks to publish good content](#a-quick-dive-into-good-mkdocs-practices)


## Setting up the environment

* First, you need to be a contributor of the [Github repository](https://github.com/ListIndexOutOfRange/WikiImages). Please contact any of the [current contributors](https://github.com/ListIndexOutOfRange/WikiImages/graphs/contributors) to ask for access. Note that the website itself is encrypted. The contributor granting you access should provide you the password as well.
* Then, clone the repo and install the dependencies:
```
git clone git@github.com:ListIndexOutOfRange/WikiImages.git
cd WikiImages
pip install -r docs/requirements.txt
```

## Adding content

The entire documentation is built with [Mkdocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/getting-started/), a tool chosen because it is as powerful as it is simple. We strongly encourage you to read the Mkdocs documentation before publishing content. The key idea is that **everything is a markdown**. That is, **any page of this website is a simple markdown file**. The process to add content is then as simple as:
* create a new markdown in the appropriate subfolder within the docs/ folder.
* modify the nav section of the [mkdocs.yml](./mkdocs.yml) file accordingly.


Note that documentation is built hunder the hood after every single commit. You can keep track of the build process in the `Actions` panel of the repository. Each commit generated two actions. The changes made appear on the website only when these two processes are finished. The site code itself is generated by mkdocs in a separate branch `gh-pages`. 

!!warning
The Mkdocs documentation advices to build the docs using the mkdocs `gh-deploy` command. **Please don't**. The documentation is built automatically after a commit. Don't build it yourself.



## A quick dive into good Mkdocs practices